- #6_35_refresh
-
- Undoubtedly - becuase Nature of the mind is to move, but you are making to make it still
- But definitely possible with practice and dispassion
- Vairagya - growing out of one's emotion
	- happiness
	- sadness
	- anger
	- grief
	- surprise
	- excitement
- ultimately we need to grow out of all these emotions
	- even good emotions also need to be get ridden
- vedanta cannot emotionally satisfy/ make you happy - like how social media does
	- only inner joy/inner happiness
	- may be thats why vedanta is unattractive
	- it is supposed to be dry
	- truth is supposed to be dry
	- does not evoke emotion
	- if it evokes emotion, then it can be only short lived
	- if truth also becomes an emotionally object, then that also will be short lived
	-
- # 6_36 #6_36
	-
	- _asaṅyatātmanā yōgō duṣprāpa iti mē matiḥ._
	- _vaśyātmanā tu yatatā śakyō.vāptumupāyataḥ৷৷6.36৷৷_
	-
	- For one who is not prepared, it is very tough to achieve
	- Krishna says - i know this for sure
	- but it is not impossible
	- just you need to start moving in this direction
		- by proper means and being one being in-charge of himself
	- goal is clearly stated - it is achievable but certainly tough
	-
	- lets say- from now, one should not be affectionate with closed ones
		- in fact, we are trying to find love - eternal need
		- but its impossible
		- how much preparation is needed to understand this
	- upatatah - by right means / right kind of effort / views - sadhana requirements
		- shravana - listening
		- manana
	- vasyatmana - one who is incharge of himself
	-
	- we cannot wake up one day and suddenly have vairagya
	- mind control -
	- success is also an emotion - we need to get rid of success as well
	-
	-
- # 6_37 #6_37
	-
	- _arjuna uvāca_
	- **_ayatiḥ śraddhayōpētō yōgāccalitamānasaḥ._**
	- **_aprāpya yōgasaṅsiddhiṅ kāṅ gatiṅ kṛṣṇa gacchati৷৷6.37৷৷_**
-
- _6.37 Arjuna said He who is unable to control himself though he has the faith, and whose mind wanders away from Yoga, what end does he, having failed to attain perfection in Yoga, mee,t O Krishna?_
-
- O krsna, aprapya, failing to achieve;
- yoga-sam-siddhim, perfection in Yoga, the result of Yoga, i.e. full Illumination;
- kam gatim, what goal; gacchati, does one attain; who, though
- upetah sraddhaya, possessed of faith, belief in God and in the other world; is
- ayatih, not diligent, devoid of effort on the path of Yoga; and, at the time of death, too,
- calita-manasah, whose mind becomes deflected;
- yogat, from Yoga, (i.e.) whose memory has been lost?
-
- # 6_38 #6_38
	-
	- **_kaccinnōbhayavibhraṣṭaśchinnābhramiva naśyati._**
	- **_apratiṣṭhō mahābāhō vimūḍhō brahmaṇaḥ pathi৷৷6.38৷৷_**
	-
	- _6.38 Fallen from both, does he not perish like a rent cloud, supportless, O mighty-armed (Krishna), deluded on the path of Brahman?_
	-
	- 6.38 Mahabaho, O Mighty-armed one;
	- ubhaya-vibhrastah, fallen from both, having fallen from the Path of Action and the Path of Yoga;
	- apratisthah, without support;
	- vimudhah, deluded-having become deluded;
	- brahmanah pathi, on the path of Brahman, on the path leading to Brahman;
	- kaccit na, does he not;
	- nasyati, get ruined;
	- iva, like; a
	- chinna-abhram, scattered cloud? Or is it that he does not?
-
- Am I wasting time?
- Am I ready for this - self knowledge?
- If I give up all - and if I am not ready, am I losing on all counts?
- I dont want to lose out on fun part as well
- we say - let me be ready first
-
- # 6_39 #6_39
-
- ētanmē saṅśayaṅ kṛṣṇa chēttumarhasyaśēṣataḥ.
- tvadanyaḥ saṅśayasyāsya chēttā na hyupapadyatē৷৷6.39৷৷
- English Translation By Swami Sivananda
  6.39 This doubt of mine, O Krishna, do Thou dispel completely; because it is not possible for any but Thee to dispel this doubt.
- English Translation Of Sri Shankaracharya's Sanskrit Commentary By Swami Gambirananda
  6.39 O krsna, arhasi, You should; asesatah, totally; chettum, eradicate, remove; etat, this; samsayam, doubt; me, of mine. Hi, for; na tvad anyah, none other than You, be he a sage or a god; upapadyate, can be; chetta, the despeller, the destroyer; asya, of this; samsayasya, doubt. Therefore you Yourself should dispel (the doubt). This is the meaning.
-
- # 6.40 #6_40
	- _śrī bhagavānuvāca_
	- _**pārtha naivēha nāmutra vināśastasya vidyatē.**_
	- _**nahi kalyāṇakṛtkaśicaddurgatiṅ tāta gacchati৷৷6.40৷৷**_
	-
	- _6.40 The Blessed Lord said O Arjuna, neither in this world, nor in the next world is there_
	- _destruction for him; none, verily, who does good, O My son, ever comes to grief._
	-
	- 6.40 O Partha,
	- eva vidyate, there is certainly;
	- na vinasah, no ruin;
	- tasya, for him;
	- iha, here, in this world; or
	- amutra, hereafter, in the other world. Ruin means a birth inferior to the previous one; that is not there for one who has fallen from Yoga.
	- Hi, for;
	- na kascit, no one;
	- kalyana-krt, engaged in good; gacchati, meets with;
	- durgatim, a deplorable end;
	- tata, My son! A father is called tata because he perpetuates himself (tanoti) through the son. Since the father himself becomes the son, therefore the son also is called tata. A disciple is called putra (son). [Sri krsna addressed Arjuna thus because the latter was his disciple.] But what happens to him?
-
- **^^Big assurance from Krishna himself that time spent on self knowledge will not go wasted^^** #big_thought
-
- # 6_41 #6_41
-
- **_prāpya puṇyakṛtāṅ lōkānuṣitvā śāśvatīḥ samāḥ._**
- **_śucīnāṅ śrīmatāṅ gēhē yōgabhraṣṭō.bhijāyatē৷৷6.41৷৷_**
-
- _6.41 Having attained to the worlds of the righteous and having dwelt there for everlasting years, he who fell from Yoga is born in a house of the pure and wealthy._
-
- Prapya, attaining, reaching,
- lokan, the worlds;
- punya-krtam, of the righteous, of the performers of the Horse-sacrifice, etc.; and
- usitva, residing there, enjoying the stay; for
- sasvatih, eternal;
- samah, years; (then,) when the period of enjoyment is over, the
- yoga-bhrastah, man fallen from Yoga, the one who had set out on the path Yoga, i.e. a monk-as understood from the force of the context [From Arjuna's estion it minght appear that he was asking about the fate of people who fall from both the paths, viz that of Karma and of Meditation. But the possibility of getting ruined by performing actios (rites and duties) according to Vedic instructions does not arise, since their results are inevitable. However, the estion of ruin is relevant in the case of a monk, for on the one hand he has renounced actions, and on the other he may fail to attain perfection in Yoga in the present life. Hence, the Lord's answer relates to the fall and ruin of a monk alone.];
- abhijayate, is born;
- gehe, in the house;
- sucinam, of the pious, who perform actions according to scriptural instructions; and
- srimatam, who are prosperous.
-