title:: 6_44

	- _pūrvābhyāsēna tēnaiva hriyatē hyavaśō.pi saḥ._
	- _jijñāsurapi yōgasya śabdabrahmātivartatē৷৷6.44৷৷_
	-
	- 6.44 By that very former practice he is borne on in spite of himself. Even he who merely wishes to know Yoga goes beyond the Brahmic word.
	-
	- 6.44 Hi, for; tena eva, by that very; purva-abhyasena, past practice-the powerful habit formed in the past life; hiryate, he, the yogi who had fallen from Yoga, is carried forward; avasah api, even inspite of himself. If he had not committed any act which could be characterized as unrigtheous etc. and more powerful than the tendency created by the practice of Yoga, then he is carried forward by the tendency created by the practice of Yoga. If he had committed any unrighteous act which was more powerful, then, even the tendency born of Yoga gets surely overpowered. But when that is exhausted, the tendency born of Yoga begins to take effect by itself. The idea is that it does not get destroyed, even though it may lie in abeyance over a long period. Jijnasuh api, even a seeker; yogasya, of Yoga from the force of the context, the person implied is a monk who had engaged in the path of Yoga with a desire to known his true nature, but had falled from Yoga-; ;even he, ativartate, trascends-will free himself from; sabda-brahma, the result of the performance of Vedic ritual. What to speak of him who after understanding Yoga, may undertake it with steadfastness! And why is the state of Yoga higher?
	-
- Keep asking questions, will it reveal it automatically? NO, not for mere mortals like us
- we have come here due to previous efforts, but now we need to walk in the right path
- forcefully chosen a mukukshu path - why did you choose this path? we may not completely answer
- why are you interested in spirituality? why towards vairagya? how did you make that choice?
	- we can never answer this.. we are just drawn to it uncontrollably, involuntarily #destiny #prarabtha #poorvakarma
	- once you drawn, you have to cherish it nourish it
	- not allow yourself/others to allow you to ignore it -
	- this happened for good... never let it slip
	- CONVERT desire for moksha #mumukshu --> desire of self knowledge #jijnasu
		- `does not happen automatically`
		- you need to consciously make an effort for it
		- one who has a desire for
		- another reason to shut off all news.. and just see **what** is really required
		- *kriyas* are just the tools to prepare yourself for self knowledge
			- they are just the means, not the end
			- anyone doing that techniques cannot be called a #jijnasu
	- that person who has that desire - goes beyond this limited thinking
		- #jijnasu is going in right direction, but #gnani is the final goal
		-
	- living with emotions cannot give you moksha
	- to start with learn to live with both
	- most likely you have more emotions which you don't want
	- ruthlessly do not get swayed by emotions
		- fear, anger - just separate yoeuself
			- wanting to separate is #jijnasu has the desire
			- being in that state is #moksha
			-
	-
	-