title:: 6_46

	- _मूल श्लोकः_
	- _tapasvibhyō.dhikō yōgī jñānibhyō.pi matō.dhikaḥ._
	- _karmibhyaścādhikō yōgī tasmādyōgī bhavārjuna৷৷6.46৷৷_
	-
	- 6.46 The Yogi is thought to be superior to the ascetics and even superior to men of knowledge (obtained through the study of scriptures); he is also superior to men of action; therefore be thou a Yogi, O Arjuna.
	-
	- A yogi is adhikah, higher;
	- tapasvibhyah, than men of austerity; he is matah, considered; - life of tapas, not just meditation
		- ramana maharishi --> who am i --> answer automatically comes --> does not happen as per vedanta
		- need self enquiry
	- adhikah, higher than, superior to;
	- api, even;
	- jnanibhyah, men of knowledge. Jnana here means scriptural learning. (A yogi is superior) to even those who possess that (learning).
	- The yogi is adhikah, higher, greater;
	- karmibhyah, than men of action-karma means Agnihotra etc.; (greater) than those who adhere to them.
	- Since this is so, tasmat, therefore; O Arjuna, bhava, do you become a yogi.
-
- मूल श्लोकः
  _
  tapasvibhyō.dhikō yōgī jñānibhyō.pi matō.dhikaḥ.
  _
  karmibhyaścādhikō yōgī tasmādyōgī bhavārjuna৷৷6.46৷৷
  _
  \n\nEnglish Translation By Swami Sivananda
  _
  6.46 The Yogi is thought to be superior to the ascetics and even superior to men of knowledge (obtained through the study of scriptures); he is also superior to men of action; therefore be thou a Yogi, O Arjuna.
  _
  English Translation Of Sri Shankaracharya's Sanskrit Commentary By Swami Gambirananda
  _
  6.46 A yogi is adhikah, higher; tapasvibhyah, than men of austerity; he is matah, considered; adhikah, higher than, superior to; api, even; jnanibhyah, men of knowledge. Jnana here means scriptural learning. (A yogi is superior) to even those who possess that (learning). The yogi is adhikah, higher, greater; karmibhyah, than men of action-karma means Agnihotra etc.; (greater) than those who adhere to them. Since this is so, tasmat, therefore; O Arjuna, bhava, do you become a yogi.
-
-
-