title:: 7_08

-
- _rasō.hamapsu kauntēya prabhāsmi śaśisūryayōḥ._
- _praṇavaḥ sarvavēdēṣu śabdaḥ khē pauruṣaṅ nṛṣu৷৷7.8৷৷_
-
- _7.8 I am the sapidity in water, O Arjuna; I am the light in the moon and the sun; I am the syllable Om in all the Vedas, sound in ether and virility in men._
-
- 7.8 Kaunteya, O son of Kunti,
- aham,
	- I; am
- rasah, the taste, which is the essence of water. The idea is that water is depedent on Me who am its essence. This is how it is to be understood in every case. Just as I am the essence of water, similarly,
- asmi, I am;
- the prabha, effulgence;
	- sasi-suryayoh, of the moon and the sun;
- pranavah, (the letter) Om;
	- sarva-vedesu, in all the Vedas. All the Vedas are established on Me who am that Om. So also (I am)
	- sabdah, the sound;
	- khe, in space, as the essence. Space is established on Me who am that (sound). In the same way,
-
- >  vedas also talk about
   ---
   * rituals
   * upanishads
   * upasanas - meditation techniques
- > all these can be compressed into one sound om kara - combines the essence of all things said in the veda
   pranava
   * aah
      akara sthoola prapanjam - physical manifestation - mandukya: waker
     sounds from throat gutterals
   * ooh
    shooksha - subtle - dreamer
    sounds from between (teeth, upper tongue)
   * amm (makara)
    karana - deep sleep
    sounds from closure
-
-
- nrsu, in men; (I am)
- paurusam, manhood- the ality of being man, from which arises the idea of manhood. Men are established on Me who am such.
-
-
- 5 gunas
	- space - sound (om)
	- air - touch - felt, feeling
		- and sound as well..
		- ^^air derives from space^^
	- fire - light. form
		- illumination of sun, moon -
		- light is necessary for seeing a form
		- that property is provided by me
		- moon is also derived from sun
		- ^^derived from air - so has sound, touch and form^^
	- water - taste (even any liquid)
		- taste of water is because of me
		- have we ever questioned the taste - who gives the taste to the water
		- even a solid form is goes to the mouth- the taste can be felt by saliva only after it is broken to liquid
		- ^^derived from water^^
	- earth - smell
		- ^^derived from water^^
	-
-
- in all these verses do not claim credit for anything
- everyone is talented in some or other - but do not claim any credit
	- all credit is to bhagwan
	- all glory to bhagwan
	- intelligence also belongs to bhagwan
- capacity to gain knowledge is also given by bhagwan
- ^^SO always be grounded^^
- do not be proud of whoever you are
- whatever and however big we achieve dont be proud and ^^they are very INSIGNIFICANT^^
- ^^don't think of leaving a legacy etc.. -- all are rubbish^^
-
-
-
-