title:: 7_18

- _ मूल श्लोकः
- _udārāḥ sarva ēvaitē jñānī tvātmaiva mē matam._
- _āsthitaḥ sa hi yuktātmā māmēvānuttamāṅ gatim৷৷7.18৷৷
-
- _7.18 Noble indeed are all these; but I deem the wise man as My very Self; for, steadfast in mind he is established in Me alone as the supreme goal._
-
- 7.18 Sarve, ete, all of these three, without exception; are eva, indeed, udarah, noble, i.e.; they are verily dear to Me. For, no devotee of Mine can become disagreeable to Me who am Vasudeva. But the man of Knowledge becomes very much dear. This is the difference. Why is this so? In answer the Lord says: Tu but; jnani, the man of Knowledge; is atma eva, the very Self, not different from Me. This is me, My; matam, opinion, conviction. Hi, for; yuktatma, with a steadfast mind-having his mind absorbed in the idea, 'I am verily Vasudeva, the Lord, and none else', that man of Knowledge asthitah, is set on the path leading to, he is engaged in ascending to, going to; mam eva, Me alone, to the supreme Brahman; who am the anuttamam gatim, super-excellent Goal to be reached. The man of Knowledge is being eulogized again:_
-
	- > different types of bhakti
	  ---
	  1. artha bhakti - 
	  2. jijnasu bhakti -
	  3. 
	  4. jnani bhakti - attribute everything to lord, and acknowledge what is given 
	  
	  > Krishna says jnani bhakti is the best of all.
	  once you gain knowledge you cannot lost it
	  once it is well assimilated, there is no way you can forget it
	  
	  whatever kama/attraction you have is now meaningless
	  once you know the futility for those desires, 
	  
	  ^^you will reach a point of indifference^^ - you cannot return to original. ^^Point of no-return^^
-