title:: 7_24

- _ मूल श्लोकः
- _avyaktaṅ vyakitamāpannaṅ manyantē māmabuddhayaḥ._
- _paraṅ bhāvamajānantō mamāvyayamanuttamam৷৷7.24৷৷_
-
- 7.24 The foolish think of Me, the Unmanifest, as having manifestation, knowing not My higher, immutable and most excellent nature.
- 7.24 Ignorant people do not know My higher nature, immutable and unsurpassed. They do not know that it is I, who is worshipped through all rites, who is the Lord of all, and whose nature is beyond speech and mind, that has incarnated as the son of Vasudeva, without abandoning My divine nature, out of My supreme compassion and parental love for those who resort to Me and in order that I may be the refuge of all. They consider Me as only a worldly prince who was not manifest before and who has now become manifest by Karma and has secured a special form. Therefore, they do not resort to Me, nor do they worship Me. Why is He not manifest (to them)? Sri Krsna says:
- English Translation Of Sri Shankaracharya's Sanskrit Commentary By Swami Gambirananda
- 7.24 Abuddhayah, the unintelligent, the non-discriminating ones
   ajanantah, unaware
   mama, of My
   param, supreme
   bhavam, state, My reality as the supreme Self   which is 
   avyayam, immutable, undecaying and 
   anuttanam, unsurpassable
   manyante, think
   mam, of Me
   as avyaktam, the unmanifest, the invisible
   apannam, that has become
   vyaktim, manifest, visible, at present [At present, after being embodied as an Incarnation.]-though I am the ever well-known God. They think so because they are unaware of My reality. This is the idea. What is the reason for their ignorance? This is being stated:
-
- > relationships are incidental 
  relationships exist due to some karmic connections
  one should try to bring closer to growing out of relationship
  any relationship we make is to use that for inner growth
  dont be bound by that relationship
  relationships are bondage
  
  > Krishna says  - who focuses on relationships are foolish
  that changesless nature of myself that peple dont appreciate
  they are stuck to limited d
  
  > ^^GROW OUT OF DESIRES - ALL RELATIONSHIPS^^
-