title:: 7_25

- _ मूल श्लोकः
- _nāhaṅ prakāśaḥ sarvasya yōgamāyāsamāvṛtaḥ._
- _mūḍhō.yaṅ nābhijānāti lōkō māmajamavyayam৷৷7.25৷৷_
- _ English Translation By Swami Sivananda
- 7.25 I am not manifest to all (as I am) veiled by the Yoga-Maya. This deluded world does not know Me, the unborn and imperishable.
- English Translation Of Sri Shankaracharya's Sanskrit Commentary By Swami Gambirananda
  7.25 Yoga-maya-samavrtah, being enveloped by yoga-maya-Yoga means the combination, the coming together, of the (three) gunas
   that (combination) is itself maya, yoga-maya
   being enveloped, i.e. veiled, by that yoga-maya
  > my real truth is hidden by mystical powers
  why is he hiding?
  we are refusing to see and appreciate HIS reality
  because I am oriented towards world outside
  as long as we are pulled by various attractions of outside world, I will be hidden from the reality
  
   aham, I
   na prakasah, do not become manifest
   sarvasya, to all, to the world. The idea is that I become manifest only to some devotees of Mine. For this very reason, 
   ayam, this
   mudhah, deluded 
  > Krishna uses all sorts of words for "fool" in last few verses
  unfortunately people are looking at a wrong direction
  people are looking at various tangigle and not inwards
  
   lokah, world
   na abhijanati, does not know
   mam, Me
   who am ajam, birthless
   and avyayam, undecaying. 
  [In verse 13 the reason for the non-realization of the supreme, unalified Brahman was stated. The present verse states the reason for the non-realization of the alified Brahman.] 'That yoga-maya, because of My being covered by which the world does not know Me- that yoga-maya, since it belongs to Me, does not obstruct the knowlege of Me who am God, the possessor of maya, just as the magic of any other magician does not cover his knowledge.' Since this is so, therefore-
- ayam, this
   mudhah, deluded
   lokah, world
   na abhijanati, does not know
   mam, Me
   who am ajam, birthless
   and avyayam, undecaying. [In verse 13 the reason for the non-realization of the supreme, unalified Brahman was stated. The present verse states the reason for the non-realization of the alified Brahman.] 'That yoga-maya, because of My being covered by which the world does not know Me- that yoga-maya, since it belongs to Me, does not obstruct the knowlege of Me who am God, the possessor of maya, just as the magic of any other magician does not cover his knowledge.' Since this is so, therefore-