title:: 7_27

- _ मूल श्लोकः
- icchādvēṣasamutthēna dvandvamōhēna bhārata.
- sarvabhūtāni saṅmōhaṅ sargē yānti parantapa৷৷7.27৷৷
- _ English Translation By Swami Sivananda
- 7.27 By the delusion of the pairs of opposites arising from desire and aversion, O Bharata, all beings are subject to delusion at birth, O Parantapa.
- English Translation Of Sri Shankaracharya's Sanskrit Commentary By Swami Gambirananda
- 7.27 Iccha-dvesa-samutthena, by what arises from likes and dislikes: iccha, likes, and dvesa, dislikes, are iccha-dvesau
   anything arising from them is icchadvesa-samutthah. (Creatures are duluded) by that. By what? When that is thus sought to be known in particular, the Lord answers: dvandva-mohena, by the delusion of duality. Delusion (moha) that originates from duality (advandva) is dvandva-moha. Those very likes and dislikes, which are mutually opposed like heat and cold, which relate to happiness and sorrow and their causes, and which come into association with all beings in due course, are termed as duality (and this deludes all creatures). As regards them, when likes and dislikes arise from the experience of happiness, sorrow and their causes, then, by bringing the wisdom of all beings under their control, they create bewilderment which is the cause of the impediment to the rise of knowledg about the reality of Self, the suprem Truth. Indeed, exact knowledg about objects even in the external world does not arise in one whose mind is overpowered by the defects, viz likes and dislikes. It goes without saying that knowledge of the indwelling Self, beset with many obstacles as it is, does not arise in a completely bewildered person whose intelligence has been overcome by them. Therefore, bharata, O scion of the Bharata dynasty
   owing to that delusion of duality arising from likes and dislikes, sarvabhutani, all creatures become deluded. Parantapa, O destroyer of foes
   they yanti sammoham, become bewildered, come under delusion
   sarge, at the time of their birth, i.e. at the time of their origination. The idea is that all creatures that come into being do so prepossessed by delusion. 'Since this is so, therefore all creatures, being deluded and having their wisdom obstructed by that delusion of duality, do not know Me who am their Self. Hence, they do not adore Me as their Self.' 'Who, again, are those that, becoming free from the delusion of duality, come to know You, and adore You as the Self in accordance with the scriptures?' In order to elaborate the subject enired about, it is being said:
- > How to grow out of desires? #GROWOUTOFDESIRE
  ^^ONLY SELF ENQUIRY^^
  first attract to something  #filth
  then struggle to that attraction
  then with knowledge, create aversion to that attraction by knowing the repurcusions/ fulfolling that desire
  then become indifferent to that desire
- know that there is no need for desire or hatred - raga and dwesha
- FIRST, ^^IF YOU CANNOT GET ATTRACTED TO ANY DESIRE^^, THAT IS A BIG RELIEF^^
- Once you know you know it for good, you cannot be ignorant again,
- this is real joy
- But everyone is deluded by