title:: 8_03

- _ मूल श्लोकः
- śrī bhagavānuvāca
- _akṣaraṅ brahma paramaṅ svabhāvō.dhyātmamucyatē._
- _bhūtabhāvōdbhavakarō visargaḥ karmasaṅjñitaḥ৷৷8.3৷৷_
- English Translation By Swami Sivananda
- 8.3 The Blessed Lord said Brahman is the Imperishable, the Supreme; Its essential nature is called Self-knowledge; the offering (to the gods) which causes existence and manifestation of beings and which also sustains them is called action.
- English Translation Of Sri Shankaracharya's Sanskrit Commentary By Swami Gambirananda
- 8.3 Aksaram means that which does not perish (na ksarati),
	-
- the supreme Self. This agrees with the Upanisadic text, 'Under the mighty rule of this Immutable, O Gargi৷৷.' (Br. 3.8.9). And (the letter) Om is not accept here [as the meaning of aksara (lit. letter)], because of its being mentioned (as a letter) later on in, 'The single letter Om, which is Brahman' (13). Besides, the adjective 'supreme' is more apporpriate with regard to the absolute, immutable Brahman. By svabhava, self-hood, is meant the eixtence of that very supreme Brahman in every body as the indwelling Self. Svabhavah ucyate, self-hood is said to be, is referred to by the word; adhyatmam, the entity which, as the indwelling Self, exists in the body (atma) by making it its habitat (adhikrtya), and which in the ultimate analysis is the supreme Brahman. Visargah, the offerings, the giving away to gods of things like porridge [Caru: An oblations of rice, barley and pulse boiled-together to be offered to gods.], cake, etc.; bhuta-bhava-udbhava-karah, which bring about the origin of the existence of things; is karma-sanjnitah, meant by action. This sacrifice consisting in pouring of oblations is called action. The existence (bhava) of (moving and nonmoving) things (bhuta) is bhuta-bhava. The coming into being (udbhava) of that (existence) is bhuta-bhava-udbhavah. That which causes (karoti) this is bhuta-bhava-udbhava-karah, i.e. the originator of existing things. It is needed from this source that all bengs, moving and non-moving, originate thorugh the successive processes of railfall etc. (see 3.14-15).
- > * for person who gains self knowledge, travel becomes unneccessary
- > * that which is not subject to detrioration, body is subject to decay
  * brahman is not subject decay
  * which does not undergo 6
  * 1. asthi - unmanifested
  * 2. jaayathe - born
  * 3.  - grows
  * 4. - significant transformation
  * 5. - start decaying
  * 6. - destroys, gone
  * none of the above changes happen for brahman
  * brahman does not take birth
  * ..
  * *all these descriptions have given with respect to atma*
  * chapter 2 - definitions for atma, also applied for brahman
  * first 6 chapters - tvam pada - enquiring into nature of the individual
  * next 6 chapters - nature of the truth of the cosmic - world around
  * next 6 chapters - establishing the identity between twam and
  * ..
- > * akharam brahmam paramam -
  * knowing oneself truth of everything else is known
- > * seeming manifestation/appearance of brahman in the body, that is called adhyatma
  * cells are being replenished/not constant
  * manifestation of brahman on discrete life forms
  * we are not concerned about the world outside
  * that brahman is manifested in the form of the body
- > * what is karma?
  * bhoota bhava ..
  * that activity which is responsible for creating different forms (in next life)
  * whole life revolves around doing some ritual or other
  * vishargaha - vaideeha karma
  * veda karma - revolves around offering into fire, fire rituals
  * here, karma is used in the context of religious activities
  * 'cos lifestyle was more religious
  * in vedic, there is no wlb - no balance need for work and life
  * in vedic, personal and professional life were same
  * being religious is performing that kind of activities
  * veda says, based on certain rituals, will get certain form of bodies
  * taking birth is also a consequence of earlier activities
  * perfectly keeping in order with the laws of the universe
  * you do something, in keeping with the universal order
  * and naturally you would get certain kind of result
  * activity which we don't know ourselves - only vedas tell
  * mumukshu - destroy all connections from the karma
  * - withdraw from karma
  * `vacation-tired-not able to take rest-but need to work for money for next vacation`
  * seeking moksha - being a mukukshu
  * even fun - temporal happiness
  * start looking inward - spirituality starts
  * do some activity without expecting any results, or any motive behind that activity
-