title:: 8_04

- _ मूल श्लोकः
- adhibhūtaṅ kṣarō bhāvaḥ puruṣaścādhidaivatam.
- adhiyajñō.hamēvātra dēhē dēhabhṛtāṅ vara৷৷8.4৷৷
- _ English Translation By Swami Sivananda
- 8.4 Adhibhuta (knowledge of the elements) pertains to My perishable Nature and the Purusha or the Soul is the Adhidaiva; I alone am the Adhiyajna here in this body, O best among the embodied (men).
- English Translation Of Sri Shankaracharya's Sanskrit Commentary By Swami Gambirananda
- 8.4 Adhibhutam, that which exists in the physical plane, i.e. that which exists by comprising all creatures;-what is it?-it consists of the ksarah bhavah, mutable entity. Ksarah is that which is mutable, which is destructible; bhavah means anything whatsoever that has orgination. This is meaning. Purusah means the Person, derived in the sense of he by whom all things are pervaded; or, he who lies in every heart. He is Hiranyagarbha, who resides in the Sun and sustains the organs of all creatures. He is adhi-daivatam, the entity existing in the divine plane. Deha-bhrtam-vara, O best among the embodied beings; adhiyajnah, the entity existing in sacrifices, is the Deity, called Visnu, presiding over all sacrifices-which agrees with the Vedic text, 'Sacrifice is indeed Vishu' (Tai, Sam. 1.7.4). Aham eva, I Myself, who am that very Visnu; am adhiyajnah, the entity existing in the sacrifice; which is going on atra dehe, in this body. Since a sacrfice is performed with body, therefore it is closely associated with the body. In this sense it is said to be going on in the body.
- > * what is adhibuta?
  * adhibutam - what is centered around bhoota. inherent quality of creation. 
  * whatever is made of elements is prone to decay
  * purrusha here - truth of the subtle universe (brahma ji - creator) - only enlighted jeeva who is born as the creator of the universe, knowledge for creation is being given to brahma ji
  * all of others who are enlightened will not come back
  * everyone is born ignorant
  * hanuman is supposed to be the creator or next universe - even in mahabharata, bhima meets hanuman
  * hanuman waiting to become next brahma ji
  * all devatas report to brahmaji (agni, vaayu etc. devatas)
- > * how and who is it  centered on the rituals - who is the primary focus of rituals
  * `all prayer reaches me`
  * brahma ji also gets knowledge from ishwara
  * we all report to devatas, devatas report to brahmaji, brahmaji report to the brahman (ishvara)
  * `offering of all rituals finally reach ishvara`
  * karma phala dhaata
  * - so much baggage in our account, result of that activity
  * who decides at what time it needs to be experienced?
  * `what you will get also will come to you at the appropriate time`
  *